foreign
Robertson I'm the CMO of bitly been at
bitly for two weeks so anything I talk
about with Bailey I can't take credit
for
um but prior to bitly I was the CMO over
at Teamwork which is project management
software and before that I led customer
marketing at Sprout social
um so I'm here today to talk about the
five customer marketing strategies
guaranteed to grow your business and
let's Dive Right In
and so to kick us off I want to tell a
little bit of stories anyone ever heard
of Alex Honnold or the documentary free
solo show hands a few of you a bunch of
you awesome
um so if you haven't heard of Alex
um part of his story is that he is this
incredible rock climber that went on the
climb of his life and wrote a DOT or had
a documentary about it and how he
trained to climb El Camino which is one
of the hardest mountains that there is
over there in Yosemite right near to us
now
why not that is in a lot of ways I liken
that to what it's like to be a customer
marketer
store inevitable potential death but at
the same time we're often on the climb
of Our Lives we're falling down we're
getting back up we're dodging Boulders
but really what we're trying to do is
scale to get the top of a mountain but
the problem is we're often doing that
alone who in this room is in customer
marketing
show your hands just a few of you keep
your hand up if you're the only person
in customer marketing
most of you
um that's absolutely typical
and there was an article recently that
Jason lemkin put out that said how much
do you talk about customer marketing be
honest it's the number one thing that
SAS companies know that they need to do
but they actually do the least of and
the reason is is that there actually is
no Playbook there's not a lot of
information out there on what is
customer marketing how do you work on
that how do you create the right kpis
what should your team look like if you
look on marketing in general and you go
on Google demand shed you will find all
the Articles all the books all of the
information on how to do it but if you
look up customer marketing there really
isn't a lot of information out there
and I think that this article or this
quote puts it really well many
organizations still clearly haven't
defined that intuitive which is the
business that put this out is a customer
advocacy platform and they do some
education on customer marketing which is
really helpful but it's still not enough
and so I'm here today to talk to you a
little bit about what that Journey
looked like when we were building it
over at Sprout social and how I brought
that to some of the other businesses
that I've worked on to hopefully Fast
Track some of your success in building
out your own customer marketing and
retention programs
I want to start with this a lot of
marketers and a lot of people in
business believe that marketing equals
generating demand and I'm a CMO and I
might get called out for this one but I
actually don't believe that marketing is
about generating value and that's the
same whether that's from an acquisition
program whether that's from a customer
marketing and retention program it's
really about creating value for the
person on the other side of the funnel
the person that you're connecting with
because when you create value that's
when you create demand and so we're
going to go through five strategies I
want to warn everybody in advance it is
a lot of information in a very short
amount of time so I will be around
afterwards to answer questions you can
also connect with me my my handles on
the bottom it's the same for Twitter and
Linkedin happy to answer any questions
with anyone that's here as we dig in
each one of these sections is a session
all on its own so bear with me we'll get
through this together and feel free to
take out your phones take pictures
you'll also have the stuff content
available afterwards
so let's start with number one know your
customers and so first and foremost and
I will say whether this is in customer
marketing or whether it's in any kind of
marketing the most important thing that
you should always start with and always
do is customer research
why is that if you look at the impact of
customer research you can see 10x of an
increase year over year sorry if that's
not showing up appropriately that is a
10x not an I
um an increase in customer satisfaction
or NPS
a 20 increase in upsell and cross-sell
rates across your business and so these
numbers are huge and I think that second
one is somewhere around 26 percent but
we'll get that number for you afterwards
but the problem is is that when you look
at these incredible numbers and you
think gosh I should be doing customer
research why don't we do it 65 percent
of marketers admit to not actually
conducting customer research on an
ongoing basis and that's really truly
because it is cumbersome it is hard and
it's also something that people don't
necessarily see as important as it is
executing but I'm here to tell you that
if you are not creating customer
research and spending time talking to
the people that you're trying to Market
to you are missing out on that 10x
opportunity so always start here if
you're looking at where to start a great
hashtag to follow is research Ops
there's a lot of really good information
in customer research in General on how
you can dig in but I'll give you some
tips on how we do this
um and so first and foremost what you're
looking to do is gather a lunch a bunch
of information and start to talk to your
customers collate that feedback and
parts through it to build a customer
Journey now in acquisition marketing
when you think about a customer Journey
it's very linear and it's very easy to
see you bring somebody into the funnel
whether that's through a lead or a
different channel that lead either gets
passed to sales or it gets passed into
your product depending if your product
letter sales LED it converts turns into
Pipeline and hopefully turns into a sale
unfortunately it is not that easy on the
customer side your customer Journey
looks a lot more like what we're looking
at the screen here it's cluttered it's
all over the place people are moving in
One Direction they're moving in another
you're not quite sure what's the right
thing to upsell or cross-sell and so the
first thing to do is to go from
something like this which is truly what
most of our customer Journeys look like
to something like this and now what I'm
showing on the screen which is kind of
hard to see right now but this is a
customer Journey map big fan of emotion
Maps where you talk about understanding
from your customers what are they
thinking what are they feeling and what
are they doing at each stage of the
funnel and based on that what you're
looking to really try to do is
understand what what are the
opportunities that are coming up to the
front that are starting to show to you
and so are there three to five different
low-hanging fruit or opportunities that
you can prioritize in your campaigns
based on how they're feeling at each
stage of their journey and then that's
where you start when it comes to
prioritizing your roadmap
and so I've got this Arrow here to
really point to the customer journey is
really your first starting point and you
should consistently do this research on
and on to get these questions to
prioritize the things that you want to
be working on and this is how you know
that those different campaigns the
content is all working towards driving
results at the end of the day
so how do you get there there's a lot of
different ways to bring qualitative
insights and so a lot of us work much
more on the quantitative side we're in
Google analytics we're looking at all of
our data and we're looking at what our
customers are doing and so the point of
this customer research is we're looking
to connect that what with the why show
of hands how many people here are
startup don't really have a lot of
customers you're still kind of getting
off the ground it's about probably half
of us so the good news is I hear this a
lot people say well gosh I can't do
customer research I don't have customers
or I don't have enough customers and
that's where I would Point more towards
the bottom half of this which is you can
go into mining data go to review sites
such as G2 trust radius and start to
understand your competitors or where
your customers are going and how they're
talking about information I one time ran
a test with a friend where we tried to
mine a lot of data and then at the same
time ran a deep in-depth customer survey
customer survey was a nine month project
in one day of mining data we got to 70
of the same amount of information that
was accurate just by going in and
understanding from review sites how
people were responding and interacting
you can also look at Social listening
and so going into your social results
and understanding competitor insights
sentiment looking at key terms or
phrases that people are looking for and
really start to understand how people
are interacting if you do have more
customers then that's where I would say
interviews and surveys are great and so
usually I'll send a larger survey out
and then get a good sample size of that
survey of multitudes of different people
to then go in and go deeper with your
customer interviews
those are a few different ways there's a
lot of other ways you can get
qualitative insights but you might be
wondering okay well what do I then ask
so here's a few of my favorite voice of
customer survey questions these are some
of the starting questions that we'll get
into how to build one of those customer
Journey maps and start to get the
thinking feeling and doing information a
few things I would call out always open
end you don't want to give people
answers you want them to give you the
answers and so there's a process and
I've linked to it below with a bitly
link that you can go to where it's a
good understanding on how to actually go
and read and parse through that to get
statistical information out of those
survey responses that you're asking and
so absolutely this is where I would
start if you have a big enough customer
base if not that's when I would point
you to mining data or starting to really
get into social
and so following up on the end of this
section great customer knowledge is just
as important as great product knowledge
we do so much research for our product
we need to do the same amount of
research for our customers and that's
absolutely the number one thing that you
have to do in building a proper customer
marketing strategy or even marketing
strategy that will help grow your
business and get results
so number two scaling intentionally and
making trade-offs uh one of the number
one things that people ask me when it
comes to building a customer marketing
team is what am I looking for who am I
hiring what does this team actually need
to look like and so the first thing I
would say is we'll walk you through kind
of what that looked like as we built
that out at Sprout and the way that I've
looked at this as I've continued to
build customer marketing teams and also
it's going to be dependent on what you
need and what your results are so we'll
talk a bit about that and then once you
have that team in place it's about
figuring out focus and making sure that
you understand what the trade-offs are
that you need to make in order to
prioritize your team to work on the most
important things otherwise often your
customer marketing team will get seen as
the swag Management Department which is
not what you want
um when I talk about Focus the other
thing I would say is there are a million
things that you can do but if you chase
two rabbits they will eventually both
Escape so it's really about picking
that's one thing okay so we're starting
with our head of customer marketing when
we first started building this out at
Sprout and went through a lot of our
customer research and a lot of our
insights what we were actually able to
find is the number one area that we saw
the most drop-off happening in the
funnel was in the early stage of
onboarding that's how we decided who to
hire first is where is the biggest
drop-off what are the things that we
need to tackle and then what are the
kpis that will help drive us better
success and so we hired an onboarding
manager not a b-a-n-a-m-p-v-t
um so this is an onboarding manager that
came in and worked a lot more on
adoption activation we'll talk about
kpis in a couple slides on how we knew
that they were successful and then as we
started to see results coming from some
of our onboarding programs we then
looked to bring in an experience manager
as well as a growth manager not a 3D HB
Fu so
a lot more on customer education focused
a lot more on customer experience and
that started to grow our growth manager
was focused a lot more on campaigns and
actually driving expansion revenue and
pipeline so think of demand generation
manager but for your install base
as that grew out further this is what
that team actually started to look like
and so on the onboarding team they were
more like a life cycle team focused on
onboarding activation retention and a
lot of programmatic campaigns which we
have got some examples in a few slides
our experience team was focused more on
customer education community and then
research was the other one that we had
there and then on the growth side we had
somebody focused on campaigns as well as
somebody focused on advocacy so it was
much more aligned to experience growth
and um scaling
how we measured their success which is
really really important and this is what
I bring to most customer teams so first
and foremost you want to think about
what is your company kpi and so our
success team which is a huge partner to
our customer marketing team was focused
on net dollar retention so naturally we
are focused on net dollar retention that
is our North Star that's what we look at
every step of the way but then each
individual team needed to then have
their kpis that they were driving so on
the onboarding side it's about daily
active users weekly active users product
adoption stickiness all of the things
that get to logo retention experience
none of those but it was actually
focused on customer satisfaction NPS
content consumption so everything that
drove towards how they were growing and
sticking with the customers and what was
their experience like were they happy
um and then on the growth side it was a
lot more lead gen focused so Hand
raisers we had them as pqls which is
more on the customer side at one company
pqa is when I was at another company so
really depending on what your metric is
it's about pipeline um expansion revenue
and renewals
the next thing we introduced and I
talked about focus and catching your
rabbits
um is always bringing to your roadmap
something called the rule of three
productivity is only productivity when
you're focused on the right things not
when you're focused on everything and so
as we dug into the kpis with each of the
individual teams that we worked on we
then broke it down to okay what are the
most important things we need to work on
right now if it was Community we had the
whole team working on what that
Community program was if it was
onboarding similar we had the whole team
working on onboarding so our
programmatic team might have been doing
emails might have been doing in-app
messages to drive them to adoption
experience might have been helping with
things like welcome kits or something
that really helped create some customer
happiness and so that rule of three
really helped ground Us in how we built
the right Focus for the team
if you're working on determining your
roadmap and setting your foundation I
can't necessarily tell you what it is
that you need to do that's what your
customer research will have to do but I
will say some of these are the most
foundational things that you need a lot
of businesses will come in and a
customer marketer and say we need
advocacy we need a community we need X
and Y and Z you need great onboarding
you need great content that educates
your customers and you need to think
about campaigns in the same way that you
do with demand gen I would start there
as a foundation and then you can start
to build on what are some of the other
cool things that you can roll out
so finally in this section invest in
your team and prioritize ruthlessly that
is a critical step to getting the head
count that you want and that you need in
order to build out customer marketing
you guys can come into if you can't hear
feel free
um okay so let's dig into number three
building strong segmentation so first I
want to point this out with our
expectations as consumers has changed
even more so over the course of these
last years when you think about your
experience with any SAS organization and
really truly any organization as that
stands the amount of emails the amount
of information that we get on a
day-to-day basis is insane this is an
example of probably any business and
what the customer is experiencing from
each of our departments right marketing
sending out campaigns product might be
sending out usage emails sales might be
reaching out to try to buy a new product
security is sending some stuff out or
engineering and sending around Security
Finance is trying to bill you and these
things are constantly coming and every
business I've ever talked to from a
Consulting perspective too is always
saying how do you handle this how do you
manage the amount of communications that
are constantly coming in and it's not
ever to come back and say Well only one
person or one team can send
Communications it's about mapping out
and understanding where they're coming
from how they're coming from and to
audit the amount of times that you're
contacting your customers and then to
Think Through why are you sending your
customers the communications that you
are and there's a lot of different ways
that you can segment these are three of
the most popular ways that companies
will look to segment out their
businesses or their customers on the
jobs to be done side it's generally a
more product-led approach and that whole
idea and jobs to be done is that people
don't just buy your product they hire
you to solve a very specific problem a
Persona is much more marketing-led and
focused on what are the unique
attributes of a certain person that will
make them want to buy and then finally
your ideal customer profile tends to be
a segmentation approach used more for
account based marketing less about the
person and more about the company
attributes none of them are wrong in
fact at some companies we've had all
three of these approaches being used at
the same time for different reasons but
it's really about understanding how are
you going in and building that research
and segmenting your customers and what
are the things that you can bring to the
rest of your company to talk about this
is who we are and this is why we're
doing this
from there you want to start to think
about the different customer stages so
we looked at a customer Journey map a
little while ago this is an example of a
customer Journey map that gets into
actually stages and what the customer's
experience is is in each parts of those
stages the most important thing for
segmentation is to actually make sure
that as you're sending out different
Communications you know where your
customer is and what their level of
happiness is if someone's in onboarding
and activation and they're doing well
and they're logging in that's great get
them to keep logging in and adopting
more of your product but if they're
onboarding and they're starting to drop
off and they're showing signs of churn
or they're showing signs of not doing
what you want the last thing you want to
do is send them an email to buy the next
product or to use a more complex part of
your product you just want to get them
to do the simple stuff and so then
you're really repeating that over and
over and over again until they hit those
sticky aha moments and so understand
your different points and these are some
typical ones that you see in most
businesses and then from there you can
start to segment out what are the types
of comms that you want to send and
manage the influx of the amount of comms
constantly going
so I have a few examples to show with
you because people love examples
um and different tactics that I run at
different businesses so this is an
example at Sprout where we started to
see some substantial customer drop off
in the early days of onboarding a lot of
people talk about running re-engagement
campaigns this can kind of fit in that
it was one email it took probably a
couple hours to get it written get it
launched and get it moving and this one
email saw 62 percent of users that were
dropping off logging back into the app
and becoming sticky again and the reason
we did that is we used a lot of our
customer research and a lot of the data
to use the language that our customers
were using in the copy that we were
writing and started to see some really
great results coming from that
re-engagement
at Teamwork what we saw is that teamwork
is a productivity software project
management software and having more than
one user was critical to the success of
the product and so we knew that bringing
in a user was one step but what we also
found is that when we actually gave the
reins to the main user that was happy to
start helping their next users to come
in that it also created better usage and
so this is an example of a communication
that we rolled out where we said help
your customer your user get started and
from there we saw a 25 new user adoption
from the early stages
and then at bitly then can't can't take
credit for this one
um but really excited to see how these
are gonna run in fact Sarah who's
standing up right there can so thank you
Sarah
um pinley is working right now on
rolling out new products we just
acquired a QR code generator earlier
this year and so we're working on
actually rolling out product knowledge
to a lot of our customers so this is an
example where we're starting to nudge
customers into the idea of we've
expanded check out these new parts of
the product and this is starting to
drive better product adoption it's a
test right in Flight right now so
excited to see how those results will
come
so finally from a segmentation
perspective segmentation is critical
when it comes to building communications
that convert don't just send any email
to any person and don't let your company
send any email to any person really take
the step to understand the list the
segment to get something launched in
live
all right so those first three were a
lot we're going to go through some more
customer experience and customer
happiness over the next two
um so step number four is education
this is a hard number so who here gets
extremely frustrated when somebody
churns from your product because they
think your product can't do something
that it actually can
most of us right if you didn't raise
your hand someday we probably will this
is a very common thing
um on average 61 of your product is
actually used across all of Technology
uh and so in general when it comes to
education it is a huge step that we need
to take
um now I wanted to bring up the slide
because when I talk about customer
education to a lot of people most of
what I often hear is that is a lot of
work really want to build an academy or
we really want to build a learning
center and you're right that is a lot of
work but you can get Scrappy that's the
way that I've done this at every company
I've ever worked for our first customer
education program at Sproul which is now
turned into a whole learning portal and
this great program started with a
webinar put on a landing page sent out
through an email and what we actually
saw with that small step which was
really comparable to what we saw when we
built it at Teamwork is that people
started to become stickier now you can't
necessarily say well that's causation
these people were starting to learn but
it is correlation and we knew that
anytime somebody went through any of the
these webinars that we rolled out or
engaged with our landing pages and
started to engage with our educational
content they started to get to a
stronger Health metric and so from there
you can start to think about different
ways that you can educate your customers
um so there's four different education
paths that I would I would recommend the
first is live training webinars is
probably one of the easiest things that
you can spin up from a marketing
perspective and I would say usually our
webinars have always been a marketer
plus a customer success rep you've got a
marketer running it maybe you've got
someone CS actually doing the webinar
with you but you also want someone there
answering questions while you're in the
webinar some of the most rich
information you can get and a really
good place to also get customer research
this next one is I'll come back to it so
I can remember it oh content content
um so content is another huge part when
you think about what you're actually
doing and building out your customer
education and it's often really like
self-guided customer-led and you're
focusing a lot on content consumption
next is community community can be
marketing and customer-led again you can
get Scrappy if you don't want to build a
huge Community start with Facebook start
with Twitter start with different ways
you can start engaging and finally
product tours partnering with your
product team and starting to rule out
different tours is a great way to get
people start leveraging your product
great education also equals exceptional
growth thank you Kamel for this great
quote too
um so I wanted to share a couple
examples of what this looks like when
you create great education built on
value so the one with Oprah is probably
one of my favorite marketing tweets of
all time saying our agency Workshop
convinced me to upgrade to Advanced so
many valuable tools as a marketer that
was just we did it
um so that's really great because not
only is this something that we are
trying to bring to our customers our
customers are also responding in a
really positive way because they are
thankful for the content we're getting
um and then at bitly a really great
example of content and actually creating
educational pieces we saw a lot of our
customers had no idea how to start
leveraging QR codes they're blowing up
right now they're everywhere they're on
our passes they're all over the event
and a lot of marketers are still
figuring out how to do this and so we
used a lot of our proprietary data to
build the QR code index and when less
than a month we saw over 60 000
downloads and this just launched this
summer so it's a really great way of
leveraging customer research and
customer education to build content that
you know is going to be valuable and
convert for your customers
um and so finally just know your
customers are not using your product to
its full potential you could have the
best product in the world it's still not
being fully leveraged it's our job as
customer marketers to help them do so
and to really help educate people in the
basics of the product to the most
advanced pieces
all right and I want to leave with our
last one which is treat every customer
as a VIP we have to remember that when
we're marketing and when we're building
these programs we are not marketing to a
business it is not a B2B or a b2c world
we are marketing to people we are all
people and we want to connect and we
want to be connected with so I want to
start with this notion of One customer
what happened if all your customers went
away and you only had one customer how
would you think about your product
roadmap how would you think about the
marketing that you're rolling out how
would you think about the ways that
you're interacting with those customers
and those are the things that you want
to think about when it comes to scaling
a one-to-many program
and I love this quote so I always like
to add this in this section of the
session which is I've learned that
people will forget what you said they
forget what you did but they will never
forget how you made them feel so
everyone take a moment and just think
about what is the last great brand
moment that you had was there a business
that connected with you in a way that
sticks with you and resonates with you
and I asked my friends to do the same
thing so here's some examples on Twitter
that came back we heard things like you
know my friend Meg who got a cake
because he paid off his student loans as
a surprise and Delight congratulations
well Ryan who was actually late to
getting into his hotel room but when he
got there there was a handwritten note
and customized snacks or Gia who got a
surprise golden ticket of free food for
a week so the first thing is send food
because everyone apparently loves food
but outside of sending food it's really
about creating these moments of surprise
and Delight that people just remember
and they keep coming back to we all have
one of those moments and those are
things that your brand can do
also the power of the thank you note so
there's a couple statistics here that
you can't see one of them is 300 percent
you get a 300 better open rate to a
thank you note or to a handwritten note
than you actually do to something that
isn't handwritten when you send
something in the mail and now while
people don't think this is scalable it
surprisingly is I'm not saying that the
people that raise their hand and their
One customer marketer needs to go and
start writing a million notes no partner
with your success team partner with your
sales team put together a campaign and
send some of these moments out here's an
example of how product hunt did the same
exact thing as a larger scalable program
you can check out the link here where it
goes more details but they sent a
thousand thank you notes to some of
their most strongest Advocates and then
they got a bunch of really great great
tweets back saying I gotta say I never
received a personal card from a website
before and all it was was a note with
some stickers super affordable super
scalable
but don't underestimate also the
importance of a personalized response um
so on every marketing team that I've
ever been a part of and been honored
enough to serve often when we send our
campaigns we don't send it from a very
Basic Marketing email we send it from a
person and we respond from a person and
that is so important and people will
often say well that takes too long what
if you get a million responses you don't
get a million responses as much as you
want but you do get some really
memorable responses and you can connect
those people with your sales team with
your success team with your product team
collate that product feedback get a lot
of that research and I love this example
because this is exactly what we see in
these responses you know thank you so
much for getting back to me I was
absolutely floored when I got your email
I've always felt like a number you made
me feel important and all we're doing
here doesn't cost us anything is sending
from a human and responding from a human
we're treating people like they are
important because they are we have to
care about our customers
and so finally for this section I would
leave you with we thrive on personal
meaningful connections we do that in the
day-to-day we also should be doing that
in work and when we think about
experience we want that same thing with
the companies that we interact with and
our products
all right so wrapping up
these are the five steps we went over I
know there were a lot at once but again
please feel free to find me afterwards
or let's reach out and connect and
knowing your customers start with your
research they were intentionally built
in a road map because this is the way I
would start and start to drive it
through scale intentionally make sure as
you're building your team you're not
just building based off of gut You're
Building based off of data and you're
proving your results based off of data
because that gets you the buy-in
segmentation is key make sure that your
Communications are very focused on the
people you're reaching out to and that
they're aligned if you need to start
small that is also important you can't
get all the segmentation right right out
from the get-go so build one then you
can build two and you can really start
to iterate as you grow invest in your
education make sure that you're
educating customers and that starts
easily with one simple webinar and
remember that every customer including
yourselves are very important people
so at the end coming back to my my
example of Alex Honnold
um I loved this quote and this is a part
of how I think about it from a marketing
side too is once I was on the climb it's
just a matter of executing so we just
got to start executing thank you
foreign
[Music]